# Spoofing

This example demonstrates spoofind through two ways -- Stealing cookies programmatically and cross site request forgery (CSRF).

## Steps to reproduce the vulnerability

1. Install dependencies

    `$ npx install`

2. Start the **insecure.ts** server

    `npx ts-node insecure.ts`

3. Start the malicious server **mal.ts**

    `npx ts-node mal.ts`

4. Open __http://localhost:8000__ in a browser, type a name and Submit.

5. Open the __Application__ tab in the Browser's inspect pane. Find the __Cookies__ under __Storage__. You should see a __connect.sid__ cookie being set.

6. Open the HTML file __mal-steal-cookie.html__ file in the same browser (different tab). Open inspect and view the console.

7. Click the link in the HTML file. Do you see the cookie being stolen in the console?

8. Open the HTML file __mal-csrf.html__ file in the same browser (different tab). What do you see if the user has not logged out of **insecure.ts**? What do you see if the user has logged out? 


## For you to answer

1. Briefly explain the spoofing vulnerability in **insecure.ts**.

In insecure.ts there is session token that is generated and stored as a cookie in the client's browser. The cookie is insecure as any other malicious website can read the cookie and then spoof as the user.

2. Briefly explain different ways in which vulnerability can be exploited.

By spoofing the identity of a real user or even a privileged user, the attacker can make POST or GET requests to the server while using the cookie already set on the browser client. For example, if the the source code for the server is open source, an attacker can look at what privileged POST requests exist and what they do and then subsequently pose as a privileged user and hit that POST request.

3. Briefly explain why **secure.ts** does not have the spoofing vulnerability in **insecure.ts**.

In secure.ts when generating the cookie to set on the browser, the server is also adding the attributes of sameSite and httpOnly. the samesite property ensures that the browser does not send the cookie that is generated by one domain to be sent to any other domain. The browser acknowledges that it can only send that cookie to the same site as its domain.This would prevent the vulnerability shown in mal-csrf.html. The server also sets the httpOnly attribute which prevents client-side javascript from reading the cookie. This would prevent the vulnerability presented in mal-steal-cookie.html.
